## Forensic FIRAC 

I think about the law through the lens of the FIRAC method: 

- **F**acts
- **I**ssues
- **R**ules
- **A**pplication
- **C**onclusion

When I think or write about the law, I classify each sentence as an F, I, R, A, or C. 

I also use the FIRAC method to examine the legal analysis of others. I learned to use FIRAC forensically from a few sources. 

I first came across the term when I was studying for the bar exam. In the Bar Exam in a Nutshell, Suzanne Darrow-Kleinhaus' explains "forensic IRAC":  

> Forensic IRAC works by examining each sentence you’ve written in terms of its place in the IRAC structure of legal analysis. Now don’t laugh or think I’ve been watching too many television crime dramas (even though I have!), but I’ve called the process forensic IRAC because the techniques we’re going to use are similar to those employed by crime scene investigators, accountants, medical examiners, and any of the forensic experts who go back over the trail of evidence to determine how that evidence led to a particular result. While such experts rely on fingerprints, ballistics, ledger books, and DNA, we use IRAC.

I add **F**acts to IRAC because, as a lawyer, I don't receive facts like law students do. When I meet with a prospective client, my initial priority is to understand their specific circumstances. Often, people can share a lot of information that isn't relevant to their legal property. 

As a legal scholar, I examine each confusing area forensically through the lens of FIRAC. 